101407944 PUMC
3925529
441763
2345939
4/30/2005 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Report Status :
Signed
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
CAUGH , DI K
UNIT NUMBER :
569-82-26
ADMISSION DATE :
04/30/2005
DISCHARGE DATE :
5/14/05 05/14/2005
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Right parietal occipital temporal tumor .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
5/5/05 right parietal occipital craniotomy and debulking of tumor using stulz neuro navigation .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a pleasant 83-year-old retired psychiatrist who presents with a chief complaint of gait difficulty for the last five to six months .
The patient has a history of laryngeal cancer in 2000 and 2001 , CVA in 2001 to 2002 and hypertension , who has a six month history of progressive difficulty in ambulation .
The patient was in previously good health when he reports starting to notice problems ambulating about six months ago .
His partner also reports that he has been having more difficulty with ADLs .
He reported that he began with difficulty buttoning his shirt for many years since after a stroke but now reports that on occasion she would ask him why he was doing certain things and he could not give a concrete example .
The patient was having a hard time walking and reports that he has felt weaker .
He has had uncoordination of his feet and began having a cane four to five months ago with the increasing weakness .
This was especially bad when trying to arise .
The patient has seen his primary care physician who referred him to physical therapy for his gait weakness but his symptoms failed to improve .
He continued to progress until two weeks prior to admission when he was found in the bathtub , unsteady and fell trying to steady himself .
The patient could not be moved and had to have 911 called for help .
Since that time he had been ambulating with a walker and has had increasing difficulty with falls in the last two weeks .
The patient was again seen by his primary care physician and a CG scan revealed a mass in the right parietal lobe .
The patient was referred to the Neurology Service for further workup of the mass .
The patient denied blurry vision , headache , nausea , vomiting , paresthesias , pain in mental status , confusion or seizures .
The patient is status post radiation therapy and resection and reconstruction for his laryngeal cancer .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
Positive weakness , otherwise negative .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Hypertension , CVA 2001 , 2002 diabetes , laryngeal cancer , right CEA , prostatectomy for BPH , total knee replacement , status post appendectomy .
MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION :
Plavix 75 mg every day , Lipitor 40 mg every day , HCTZ 50 mg , Monopril 10 mg every day , Viagra 100 mg prn .
ALLERGIES :
NKDA .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Father with CAD at 90 , diabetes , CVA , hypercholesterolemia .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient has one to two pack x20 year history of smoking that was 30 years ago .
He reports occasional alcohol use and no illicits .
The patient is a retired psychiatrist who lives in Ph .
PHYSICAL EXAM :
Afebrile , vital signs stable but notable for a blood pressure of 164/80 .
Generally a well developed elderly man in no apparent distress sitting in bed .
HEENT ;
extraocular movements intact .
Pupils equally round and reactive to light .
No nystagmus .
No retinal hemorrhages .
External ears normal .
Moist buccal mucosa , poor dentition , no erythema or exudates in the posterior pharynx .
Neck supple .
Prominent salivary glands bilaterally .
No other masses or thyromegaly noted .
No cervical , para-auricular or clavicular lymphadenopathy .
Chest :
Crackles in the right lung field .
No egophony .
Heart :
no palpable thrill or heave .
S1 , S2 .
3/6 systolic ejection murmur heard best at the apex .
Pulses 2+ carotids bilaterally , 2+ radial pulses , 2+ DP pulses bilaterally .
The abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds .
No hepato or splenomegaly .
Right lower quadrant scar and inferior midline scar that are well healed .
Back :
No CVA tenderness .
Skin :
No petechiae .
Cranial nerves II through XII grossly intact with a slight deviation of the uvula and tongue to the right .
There is increased tone in his right upper extremity with a slight left pronator drift .
On the right side his strength was 5 out 5 .
On the left side it is 4 out of 5 in the lower extremities .
The patient has an intention tremor with the left hand .
His reflexes were symmetric with upgoing toes .
There was a plantar grasp present on the left hand .
Graphesthesia was poor in both hands .
His gait was unsteady and he was unable to stand on his own .
Mental status :
he was alert and oriented x3 .
RELEVANT LABORATORY DATA :
White blood cell count on admission 6.1 , INR on admission 1.0 , relevant imaging .
Echocardiogram June 2004 showed an EF of 77% .
Chest xray reveals no consolidation or signs of edema .
CT shows a right parietal hyperdense and heterogenously enhancing mass measuring 6.5 x 5 cm with the surrounding vasogenic edema in effacement of the right lateral ventricle .
The finding was most consistent with metastatic disease and less likely primary CNS neoplasm such as glioblastoma .
MRI showed a large heterogenous enhancing right parietal mass lesion with a possible ependymal spread .
The patient was admitted to the Neurologic Service for workup of his tumor .
The neuro-oncologist felt that because of the tremendous tumor burden that was likely causing his symptoms the patient will require open debulking as well as obtaining issue for a pathologic diagnosis .
Thea patient was referred to Dr. Coma of the Eragnes Houseco Ardbay Memorial Hospital .
On May 5 , 2005 the patient was taken to the operating room for a right parietal occipital craniotomy and debulking of the tumor using stulz neuro navigation .
Please see the separately dictated operative report for further details of the procedure .
The patient was taken to the recovery room and then to the postoperative floor in stable condition .
Of note the patient was seen by cardiology for preoperative assessment .
The patient was also seen by physical and occupational therapy during his postoperative course and they recommended that he go to a rehabilitation facility for his recovery .
A postoperative MRI was obtained which revealed no remarkable findings but only post surgical changes .
Transcranial Dopplers were checked following surgery and the patient was started on Decadron 4 mg q6 to prevent swelling .
The patient was started on Fragmin for DVT prophylaxis and the patient was also started on Dilantin levels .
Of note on 5/9/05 the patient was seen by Urology due to an inability to void and a 16 French Coude catheter was placed .
The patient then was given voiding trials but eventually he needed to be straight cathed prn .
At the time of transfer , a 16 Coude catheter was in place and draining well .
The patient can have voiding trials at rehab and he is being maintained on Flomax .
The patient had a relatively unremarkable course and his neurologic status continued to improve following the operation .
At the time of discharge the patient was alert and oriented x3 and able to swallow pureed and thick diet without a problem .
On 5/11/05 repeat imaging revealed some edema and mass affect .
The patient was given an IV load of Decadron and restarted on IV Decadron which was eventually transferred to po Decadron .
The patient was also started on Mannitol .
His pathology came back as a large grade IV glioma .
The patient &apos;s pain was initially controlled with IV pain medications but at the time of discharge to the rehab facility he was able to control his pain on po pain medications .
The patient did have a postoperative serum sodium in the 120s from the 130s three days postoperatively .
An endocrine consult was obtained to help manage his serum electrolytes .
The patient was started on three grams of sodium , 3x a day with fluid restriction .
Over the next several days his sodium levels were followed and by 5/12/05 his plasma sodium was back to 136 .
The patient was taken off fluid restriction .
On 5/14/05 Mannitol was tapered and then d / c&apos;d.
At the time of transfer the patient was stable and needed only physical and occupational therapy .
The patient was oriented to person , place and time and opened eyes appropriately to speech when asked .
The patient is hard of hearing .
The patient had no complaints of pain .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
1. Lipitor 40 mg po every day .
2. Captopril 12.5 mg po tid .
3. Nexium 40 mg po every day .
4. Colace 100 mg po bid .
5. Ativan 0.5 mg po q4 hours prn for anxiety .
6. Allegra 60 mg po bid .
7. Dilantin 100 mg IV tid which can be changed to a po regimen in seven days .
8. Zinc 220 mg po every day .
9. Vitamin C 500 mg po bid .
10. Flomax 0.4 mg po every day .
11. Fragmin 2500 units subcut every day .
12. Levofloxacin 500 mg po q daily x10 days .
13. Dexamethasone 4 mg po q6 hours .
14. The steroid will be kept for now and tapered at a later date on follow up with Dr. Coma .
15. Regular insulin sliding scale with finger sticks qac and qhs .
16. Neutra-Phos 1.25 grams po as needed .
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS :
The patient is instructed to not shower or bath until one week .
The staples were removed prior to discharge .
The patient is instructed not to drive .
The patient is asked to see a physician immediately or go to the nearest emergency room if any bleeding , wound infection , fever greater than 100.8 , intractable nausea and vomiting , headache , dizziness , numbness , pain or weakness occurs .
The patient instructed to call Dr. Coma &apos;s office at 496-260-3297 to arrange for a follow up appointment in the Saintaelfoote Hospital at the first available time , one to two months after surgery .
The patient is also asked to call the Neuro / Oncology Service , the office of Dr. Britts at 430-884-2917 for a follow up appointment in three weeks .
The patient is asked to take a course of Dilantin for ten more days .
The patient is instructed not to undergo any heavy lifting until seen in clinic .
HOPETAMEMY K. THOREDUHEDREPS , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
Electronically Signed ERIN KENGEKOTE , M.D.
05/14/2005 16:02
_____________________________ ERIN KENGEKOTE , M.D.
TR :
wy
DD :
05/14/2005
TD :
05/14/2005 1:10 P 441763
cc :
ERIN KENGEKOTE , M.D.
