Admission Date :
2012-04-30
Discharge Date :
2012-05-14
Date of Birth :
1956-11-04
Sex :
M
Service :
O-CMED CCU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 55 - year-old male with recently diagnosed abdominal carcinomatosis .
The patient presented with abdominal pain and bloating and was found to have a large omental mass .
Biopsy revealed adenocarcinoma .
Histochemical stains are consistent with hepatobiliary origin .
Endoscopies were negative except for an extrinsic mass present on the stomach .
The patient presents with increased abdominal pain and poor oral intake as well as generalized weakness .
On presentation , the patient denied chest pain , shortness of breath , and cough .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. Benign prostatic hypertrophy .
2. Osteoarthritis .
3. Gastrointestinal adenocarcinoma ( as noted in History of Present Illness ) .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Colace , Senna , Dulcolax , Tylenol , oxycodone as needed , Ambien , and Protonix .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Mother had adrenal cancer .
Father had coronary artery disease .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient was employed as a salesman .
He denied the use of tobacco and drugs .
He uses alcohol occasionally .
The patient is married with two children .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
Review of systems was significant for progressive abdominal discomfort , decreased oral intake , and weakness in the past nine weeks .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION :
Physical examination revealed temperature was 96.9 , heart rate was 121 , blood pressure was 122/86 , respiratory rate was 22 , and oxygen saturation was 96% on room air .
In general , the patient looked acutely and chronically ill .
Head , eyes , ears , nose , and throat examination revealed the oropharynx was clear .
Sclerae were anicteric .
Mucous membranes were moist .
Cardiovascular examination revealed tachycardic first heart sound and second heart sound .
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops .
Lungs revealed decreased breath sounds and dullness to percussion in the left lung base .
The abdomen was distended and firm .
Positive bowel sounds .
Extremity examination revealed no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema .
IMPRESSION :
This was a 55 - year-old gentleman with recently diagnosed abdominal carcinomatosis admitted with increased abdominal pain and poor oral intake .
The patient was admitted to the O-CMED Service for further management .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the O-CMED
Service .
He was placed on a patient-controlled analgesia for pain control .
He was administered intravenous fluids and oral diet as tolerated .
On the night of 05-01 , the patient complained of increased vomiting .
He also complained of increased shortness of breath and " difficulty catching his breath ."
On room air , the patient 's oxygen saturation was 80% .
His saturation increased to 87% on a nonrebreather .
A chest x-ray disclosed a left pleural effusion .
The patient was bolused with intravenous heparin due to concern for pulmonary embolism .
The patient expressed a desire to be full code , so he was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit .
The patient became more comfortable being seated upright with nebulizer treatments .
An angiogram was done which disclosed possible subsegmental pulmonary emboli of the upper lobes as well as infiltrates consistent with aspiration pneumonia .
The patient was placed on Flagyl and Levaquin for treatment of pneumonia .
He was continued on heparin for treatment of the pulmonary emboli .
While in the Intensive Care Unit , the patient was noted to have increasing abdominal distention .
On 05-03 the patient underwent an abdominal ultrasound with paracentesis , and 5 liters of fluid were removed .
On 05-04 , the patient was transferred back to the O-CMED CSRU
Service .
Due to persistent gastric secretions , an nasogastric tube was placed for decompression .
The patient was noted to have a functional ileus .
Octreotide was initiated in an attempt to decrease the gastric secretions .
On 05-13 , the patient 's respiratory status declined further .
He was noted not have an increasing left-sided pleural effusion .
A thoracentesis was done with removal of 1.5 liters of fluid .
A paracentesis was repeated with removal of 2.5 liters of fluid .
On the night of 05-13 , the patient continued to decline .
The family decided to pursue comfort measures .
Morphine was administered to insure patient 's comfort .
The patient expired at 6 p.m. on 05-14 .
FINAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES :
1. Gastrointestinal adenocarcinoma ; primary unknown ( likely hepatobiliary ) .
2. Aspiration pneumonia .
3. Pulmonary emboli .
4. Hypoxia .
5. Dehydration .
6. Ileus .
Pearl Y. Simmons , M.D. 68-957
Dictated By : Lynn J Crump , M.D.
MEDQUIST36
D : 2012-05-14 19:24
T : 2012-05-19 05:00
JOB # : 79196
Signed electronically by : DR. Catherine GOLDSTEIN on : Andrea 2012-06-07 8:18 AM
( End of Report )