Admission Date :
2015-09-16
Discharge Date :
2015-09-21
Date of Birth :
1962-09-26
Sex :
M
Service :
CARDIOTHOR
REASON FOR ADMISSION :
Mitral valve repair .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 52 year old Czech speaking gentleman with a history of severe mitral regurgitation .
For the past several years , the patient has continued to have significant exercise intolerance which has limited his ability to work .
He reports severe dyspnea on exertion .
The patient had a recent admission earlier in the month and he was discharged on 2015-09-10 , after undergoing cardiac catheterization .
This was significant for demonstrating no flow-limited disease in the coronaries but several fistulae
from the left anterior descending to the PA .
Several of these were coil embolized during this admission .
He tolerated this well , was sent home , and now returns for his mitral valve repair .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. Mitral valve regurgitation .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
None .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
1. Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q. day .
2. Enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day .
3. Nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n.
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient is currently on Disability and lives at home with his wife .
Kimberly was born in Great Britain .
He denies any ETOH or tobacco use .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Negative .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient is in no acute distress .
Temperature is 98.3 F. ; pulse is 76 ; blood pressure 113/52 ; breathing 18 ; 98% on room air .
HEENT :
The patient is missing many teeth .
Oropharynx is clear .
There is no cervical lymphadenopathy .
Supple neck .
Heart is regular rate and rhythm with a III/VI systolic ejection murmur .
His lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally .
Abdomen is soft and nontender .
The patient has no cyanosis , clubbing or edema in extremities .
LABORATORY :
On admission include a white blood cell count of 5.6 , hematocrit of 32.5 , platelets of 202 .
Sodium of 140 , potassium of 3.5 , BUN of 4 , creatinine of 0.6 , glucose of 137 .
Chest x-ray shows no infiltrate or pneumothorax .
Cardiac catheterization demonstrates no significant disease in the coronary arteries .
Two branches of an left anterior descending to PA fistula which was successfully coiled .
There is a persistent flow through an inferior branch of the left anterior descending to PA fistula and a persistent branch of the circumflex to PA branch fistula which anatomically were not suitable for coil embolization .
Ejection fraction was 60% .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
On the day of admission , the patient went to the Operating Room and underwent a minimally invasive
mitral valve repair .
He tolerated this procedure well .
The patient was brought to the cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit in stable condition on minimal pressor support .
He was successfully weaned off this support .
The patient was fully weaned from ventilatory support secondary to a persistent acidemia .
This was treated with sodium bicarbonate and a Swan-Ganz was placed to provide close hemodynamic monitoring .
The patient was found to have stable hemodynamics with appropriate mixed venous saturations in the 70% range .
The patient was corrected to a normal pH of 7.41 by the first postoperative night and remained stable .
He was then weaned off of ventilatory support and was successfully extubated .
The patient did have a slight bit of confusion early in post-extubation course which cleared .
This was also compounded by a language barrier since the patient cannot speak English .
In addition , the patient 's early postoperative course had a tremendous urine output .
It was equally up to 700 cc. an hour and a renal consultation was obtained .
He underwent a head CT scan to rule out intracranial pathology leading to diabetes insipidus .
This was negative .
The patient 's serum and urine electrolytes indicated that this diuresis was appropriate .
The patient 's urine output has decreased and his BUN and creatinine remained normal .
The patient 's Foley was discontinued .
He had developed some hematuria which has resolved .
The patient has remained stable and is now ready for discharge to home with follow-up in approximately four weeks .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES :
1. Mitral regurgitation status post minimally invasive mitral valve repair .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
1. Lopressor 75 mg p.o. twice a day .
2. Colace 100 mg p.o. twice a day .
3. Percocet one to two p.o. q. four hours p.r.n.
4. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Stable .
DIGibsonE INSTRUCTIONS :
1. The patient will follow-up with Dr. de las Grau in four weeks .
2. He will follow-up with his primary care physician , Dr. Blake , in two weeks .
3. The patient will call for any fevers or difficulties with the wound care , and will be instructed with an interpreter present .
Bruce lou Murphy , M.D.
07-760
Dictated By : Ellen V Wise , M.D.
MEDQUIST36
D : 2015-09-21 08:34
T : 2015-09-26 15:44
JO B#:
18430
Signed electronically by : DR. Mary van den Mosley on : WED 2015-10-14 7:16 PM
( End of Report )