Admission Date :
2011-01-19
Discharge Date :
2011-01-25
Date of Birth :
1943-01-22
Sex :
M
Service :
MEDICINE
INDICATION FOR ADMISSION :
Transfer from Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital for an endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatography .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Eugene is a 67 year old male with a remote history of chronic pancreatitis due to alcohol abuse 30 years ago , who is transferred now from Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital for an ERCP and work-up for a cystic lesion at the head of his pancreas on CT scan shown at the outside hospital .
The patient presented initially to Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital at the end of December for abdominal pain , and was found to have pancreatitis .
During this admission , two CT scans had shown a question of an enlargement of the head of his pancreas
versus early pseudocyst .
The patient was discharged home early from this admission due to family needs .
While at home , the patient did not do well and could tolerate minimal food intake and lost about 20 pounds in one month .
On an office visit on 01-14 , the patient was found to have significantly elevated alkaline phosphatase .
That evening , the patient again developed abdominal pain " like his pancreatitis " with nausea and vomiting , for which he was admitted to the Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital .
In the Emergency Department at the Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital , the patient was noted to have vomited some heme positive material .
His complete blood count showed 11% bandemia with a total white count of 10 .
A HIDA scan showed no flow , question of pancreatitis versus common bile duct obstruction .
His electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm .
A chest x-ray was unremarkable .
During his admission to Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital , the patient had dropped his hematocrit to the 30 s with recorded melena .
He received an MRCP which was negative for evidence of stones .
An ultrasound showed normal gallbladder with no wall thickening but a dilated common bile duct of 8 mm measured on CT scan .
The patient had an attempted ERCP on 01-18 , which was unsuccessful due to a long nipple like papilla .
He was therefore transferred to Saints Medical Center for endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatography .
The patient 's blood cultures at outside hospital grew out Streptococcus sanguis-gordonii on 01-18 .
This was sensitive to Clindamycin , Erythromycin , penicillin S and Vancomycin .
Prior to this result , the patient had already been on Ampicillin , Sulbactam and Gentamycin .
It appears from the Discharge summary that the patient was placed on Unasyn 3 grams intravenously every six hours after his ERCP .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. Type 2 diabetes mellitus .
2. Right rotator cuff injury .
3. Gastroesophageal reflux disease with esophageal dilatation for stricture .
4. Recent pancreatitis ; prior history for recurrent pancreatitis 30 years ago from alcohol .
5. History of Streptococcemia in the year 2008 ; source was unclear but presumed to be urinary .
6. Status post tonsillectomy as a child .
MEDICATIONS AT HOME :
1. Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q. day .
2. Flomax 4 mg p.o. q. day .
3. Humalog 75/25 , subcutaneously .
4. Regular insulin 15 units q. a.m. and 14 units q. p.m.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION FROM TRANSFER :
1. Unasyn 3 grams intravenous every six hours .
2. NPH 10 units subcutaneously every morning and 8 units subcutaneously every evening .
3. Flomax 0.4 mg p.o. q. day .
4. Prilosec 30 mg p.o. q. day .
5. Regular insulin sliding scale .
6. Tylenol .
ALLERGIES :
The patient is allergic to Ciprofloxacin , morphine sulfate and Droperidol .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient lives with his disabled wife who has a psychiatric condition .
He had a history of alcohol abuse but has been sober for 30 years .
He is a retired painter .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On admission showed a temperature of 97.1 F. ; heart rate of 65 ; blood pressure of 146/74 ; respiratory rate of 20 ; oxygen saturation 98% on three liters and 95% on room air .
The patient was alert , awake and oriented , pleasant , and in no acute distress .
Head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination revealed mucous membranes that were moist .
The patient has two teeth .
He has fine dental hygiene .
He had no icterus .
Cardiovascular system revealed normal S1 and S2 , no murmurs or gallops and regular rate and rhythm .
Pulmonary examination revealed lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally .
Abdominal examination revealed an abdomen that is nondistended , nontender .
He had normoactive bowel sounds .
His liver span was 8 cm .
The antrum was palpable 3 cm below the costal margin .
The spleen tip was palpable .
There was no rebound ; no Munos sign .
Extremities reveal no edema , no swelling .
Neurologic examination revealed an alert and oriented individual .
His face was symmetric ; tongue was midline .
His language was fluent and normal .
The patient was moving all four extremities with ease .
There was no formal strength test done .
LABORATORY :
Studies revealed a hematocrit of 32.6 , white count of 6.0 .
His platelet count was 267 .
His MCV was 88 , red cell distribution was 13.4 .
Chemistry on admission showed a sodium of 141 , potassium of 4.3 , chloride of 107 , bicarbonate of 25 , BUN of 4 , creatinine of 0.6 and a sugar of 177 .
Liver function tests revealed an ALT of 31 , AST of 36 , alkaline phosphatase of 509 .
Total bilirubin was 0.8 .
Albumin was 2.6 .
His blood cultures were drawn and pending .
Urinalysis revealed trace glucose , no ketones , no red cells , no white cells and less than one epithelial cells .
COURSE IN HOSPITAL :
The patient was taken down to the endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatogram upon admission .
On this examination , the patient was found to have mild biliary stricture most likely secondary to chronic pancreatitis .
Cytology was obtained .
He was also found to have dilated pancreatic ducts with calcifications consistent with chronic pancreatitis .
The patient underwent a percutaneous sphincterotomy extended to a full sphincterectomy .
He also had successful extraction of stone fragments .
The patient tolerated this procedure well and had no complications .
The patient subsequently underwent a CT scan angiogram with Pancreas protocol to assess the pseudocyst versus enlarged pancreas head .
The results of this study indicated that this structure at the head of his pancreas is most likely a forming pseudocyst ; however , the suspicion of malignancy is still possible and the patient underwent an ultrasound guided biopsy of this mass on 2011-01-20 .
The cytology for this biopsy is still pending .
The patient recovered well status post these two procedures .
He had no complications and no subsequently pancreatitis .
His alkaline phosphatase and all the other abnormal liver function tests were resolving .
He had no pain and did not require any pain medications .
He was tolerating food very well and was afebrile throughout admission .
With regards to the patient 's documented Strep septicemia in the outside hospital , the Infectious Disease Team was formally consulted .
Upon obtaining more information from Rehab Hospital of the Cape & Islands Hospital , it appears that the patient had two out of four bottles growing out Streptococcus sanguis in the outside hospital .
The patient appeared to have been covered by Ampicillin , Gentamycin and then Unasyn in the outside hospital .
The patient , on admission , was placed on Ampicillin , Gentamycin and Flagyl .
With repeated blood cultures that were negative , the patient was reduced to single Mckenzie of intravenous Ampicillin .
For this documented septicemia , this patient went for a endocarditis work-up .
He had a transthoracic echocardiogram which revealed no vegetations .
On this echocardiogram , he was found to have mildly dilated left atrium , mild symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy , and a normal ejection fraction of greater than 55% .
There were no other abnormalities noted on this study .
The patient then underwent a transesophageal echocardiogram on 01-24 .
On this echocardiogram , he was again noted to not have any evidence for valvular vegetations .
A complex plaque was found in the aortic arch in the descending thoracic aorta , although this plaque is non-mobile .
There was focal mitral valve prolapse noted without pathologic mitral regurgitation .
The patient was noted to have trace aortic regurgitation .
A Panorex x-ray of his two teeth were obtained and a Dental Consultation was done .
The patient was thought to have normal dental hygiene and low suspicion for a source of his alpha septicemia from his mouth .
Infectious Disease Department as well as Cardiology had recommended a formal 14 - day course of intravenous antibiotics to treat a documented alpha Streptococcal septicemia from outside hospital blood cultures .
The patient 's insurance company , however , would not pay for home antibiotics .
After much discussion with the patient , the patient was informed of the risks of not finishing a 14 day course of intravenous antibiotics and chose to go home .
He had three days of antibiotics remaining at the time of discharge .
It was discussed with the patient to send him out on Augmentin 500 mg three times a day for ten more days .
He was to follow-up with his primary care physician within two to three days for repeat laboratory studies and blood cultures .
He was to return to the hospital with any signs of shaking chills or fever .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES :
1. Pancreatitis status post endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatography and sphincterotomy .
2. Alpha Streptococcus septicemia .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
1. Augmentin 500 mg p.o. three times a day times ten days .
2. Flomax 0.4 mg p.o. q. day .
3. Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q. day .
4. Humalog and Regular insulin subcutaneously .
Hallo MING LI , M.D.
40-963
Dictated By : Annie D. Martinez , M.D.
MEDQUIST36
D : 2011-01-25 14:08
T : 2011-01-26 11:30
JOB #:
09167
Signed electronically by : DR. Dorothy L. Brennan on : Russell 2011-01-27 11:38 AM
( End of Report )