Admission Date :
2017-09-22
Discharge Date :
2017-09-27
Date of Birth :
2017-09-22
Sex :
M
Service :
CMED CSRU
HISTORY :
Peggy Hammock is a full term baby boy born at 38 1/7 weeks by repeat cesarean section to a 34 year old gravida III , now para II mother .
Serologies include blood type O negative , antibody negative , RPR nonreactive .
Hepatitis B surface antigen negative , rubella immune .
Group B strep screening was negative .
Pregnancy was uncomplicated until an occurrence of HSV outbreak occurred on 2017-09-13 approximately one week prior to delivery .
Pregnancy was also complicated by maternal history of depression for which mother received Zoloft .
On day of delivery mother presented in spontaneous labor .
There were no sepsis risk factors .
GBS negative .
No maternal fever .
Rupture of membranes at time of delivery .
Delivery was by repeat cesarean section and Apgars of 8 and 9 were given at one and five minutes respectively .
Baby appeared well and went to the newborn nursery and was breast feeding and undergoing routine newborn care .
On the newborn nursery the mother called the nurse for concern of baby turning dusky while feeding .
She called the nurses and patted the infant on the back .
This episode was also accompanied by gagging motions noted of the infant .
A second episode occurred where the baby turned pale .
Mother thought the baby just did not look right .
The baby did not turn blue at that time .
The Neonatal Intensive Care Unit was notified and the baby was transferred to the Newborn Intensive Care Unit for further evaluation .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On admission to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit :
Full term well appearing infant with some facial jaundice , overall pink , warm and well perfused , alert and responsive .
Anterior fontanelle is soft , open and flat .
Ears are normally set .
Red reflexes noted bilaterally .
He had a left pupil that was in unequal in size with a keyhole appearance consistent with a coloboma .
The nares were patent .
Palate was intact .
Mucous membranes were moist and pink .
His neck was supple without masses or bruits .
Lungs were clear to auscultation and equal .
Comfortable respiratory pattern .
Cardiovascular :
Regular rate and rhythm , no murmur .
2 plus femoral pulses were noted .
Abdomens oft with positive bowel sounds .
Genitourinary :
Infant was circumcised in the newborn nursery which was healing well .
Testes were descended bilaterally .
Extremities were pink and well perfused .
Neurologic :
Tone was appropriate for gestational age with equal strength , symmetric reflexes .
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS :
Respiratory :
The infant was placed on a cardiopulmonary monitor upon admission to the Newborn Intensive Care Unit with pulse oximetry .
He was noted to have an episode of desaturation related to feeding with desaturations in the 70 percent .
This resolved spontaneously when the bottle was pulled from the baby 's mouth .
Jule remained in room air without any evidence of respiratory distress and was without any further dusky spells or pale episodes in the 48 hours prior to discharge .
Cardiovascular :
Renee remained cardiovascularly stable with AP s noted to be 120 to 130 s.
Blood pressure 84/43 with a mean of 59 .
Fluid , electrolytes and nutritions :
The baby had been breast feeding ad lib in the Newborn Nursery .
He continued to feed ad lib while a patient in the Newborn Intensive Care Unit .
He was fed with a bottle occasionally by his dad and had a vigorous suck and was noted to have some discoordination of his suck while breathing at the initial onset of feeding time .
This resolved with removal of the bottle from the baby 's mouth .
Breast feeding was limited to four to five minutes on each side per recommendation of neurology after their evaluation to try and minimize incidence of gastroesophageal reflux .
Weight at time of discharge is 3.13 kilograms .
Birth weight was 3.29 kilograms in the 75th percentile .
Head circumference was 34.5 cm , 75th percentile , and length was 50.7 cm , also the 75th percentile .
Gastrointestinal :
Baby was noted to have frequent spitting episodes .
This was minimized with limitation of volume at each feed with frequent feeding .
He had normal voiding and stooling patterns .
The baby demonstrated mild physiologic jaundice with a serum bilirubin obtained on day of life three which was 6.7 with a direct of 0.2 .
Mother 's blood type is O negative .
Infant 's blood type was O positive and Coombs was noted to be negative .
Hematologic :
In addition a complete blood count was obtained on admission with a white count of 10.1 with 43 polys and 0 bands .
Hematocrit was noted to 47.5 with platelets of 257,000 .
There were no blood products received during hospitalization .
Infectious disease :
A blood culture was obtained upon admission and Ampicillin and Gentamicin were given for 48 hours with blood cultures remaining sterile .
Antibiotics were discontinued on day of life three and infant has remained clinically well off antibiotics .
Neurology :
Neurology was consulted due to the concern for seizures in the setting of dusky episodes .
Neurology evaluated the baby and found the baby to have a normal neurological examination .
An EEG was performed .
The EEG showed transient sharp waves in the left front , left occipital and right parietal regions .
There was no electrographic evidence of seizure activity noted .
Sensory :
Hearing screening was performed with automated auditory brain stem responses .
Baby passed in both ears on 09-23 .
Ophthalmology :
Ophthalmology was consulted due to the presence of a coloboma into the left CMED .
Ophthalmology noted that this left Martha coloboma was likely an isolated anomaly in the absence of other pathology .
Follow up as below .
Psychosocial :
Cambridge Health Alliance social worker was involved with this family .
She may be reached at ( 756 ) 599-4849 .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Good .
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION :
To home with parents .
Primary pediatrician is Dr. Satterlund of Westborough Pediatrics .
Telephone number is ( 739 ) 520-0347 .
Fax number is ( 617 ) 455-4585 .
Appointment is on Lyon , 10-30 .
CARE AND RECOMMENDATIONS :
Feeds are breast feeding P.O. ad lib .
Medications are Tri-Vi-Michael 1 cc by mouth each day .
Newborn state screen was sent on day of life three .
Results are pending .
Immunizations received are hepatitis B vaccine given on 09-26 .
Follow up appointments scheduled :
Neurology follow up with Dr. Workman is scheduled for 2017-10-20 at 12:30 pm  at the Addison Gilbert Hospital of Oak Bluffs , Ison 11 .
Phone number is 209-604-1402 .
Follow up ophthalmology appointment is with Dr. Jundt on Ison 4 at the Addison Gilbert Hospital of Oak Bluffs in three months .
Appointment to be scheduled by mom .
Telephone number is 444 7700 .
Boston Regional Medical Centerr Visiting Nurse Association has been asked to visit this family at home to follow up on feeding and
parenting .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES :
Full term male infant with cyanosis episodes .
Rule out sepsis .
Left coloboma .
Rule out seizures .
Lucile Virgina , MD 50AAD
Dictated By : Sherry G Christie , M.D.
MEDQUIST36
D : 2017-09-27 17:51:44
T : 2017-09-27 18:26:21
Job #: 75510
Signed electronically by : DR. Marcus N Schartz on : Maxine 2017-09-28 9:34 AM
( End of Report )