Admission Date :
2009-12-28
Discharge Date :
2009-12-31
Date of Birth :
1964-03-23
Sex :
F
Service :
NEUROMEDIC
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mrs. Wisniewski is a 45-year-old woman with multiple familial cavernous hemangiomas .
She is right-handed .
She was in her usual state of health until one and a half weeks prior to admission .
She developed an ear ache , for which she saw her primary care physician , Evelyn was prescribed cortisone drops .
A few days later she complained of dizziness .
This was mostly described as feeling unsteady on her feet .
She stated that she had trouble knowing if her feet were touching the ground .
She was seen again by primary care physician , Roderick since she had complaints of dizziness , as well as a new complaint of decreased hearing and the sensation of static in her ears , meniere 's disease was considered .
She was given an oral prednisone taper .
This unsteady gait progressed , and then she subsequently started to develop a pins and needle feeling in the face , hands and feet bilaterally .
Her hearing got progressively worse and the sound of static increased .
She was very fatigued .
At an outside hospital , head CT revealed a 1.5 cm diameter hyperdense mass in the pons , slightly off center to the right .
She was transferred here for further care .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Notable for multiple cavernous hemangiomas .
She has had at least two bleeding episodes in the past , mostly described as being accompanied by generalized weakness .
She has had at least two generalized seizures in the past , but she has not had one since she was 26 years old .
She was never on an anticonvulsant due to her former beliefs as N. Derk Scientist .
She no longer observes that belief system .
MEDICATIONS :
Prednisone taper as above .
ALLERGIES :
None .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Strong maternal history of hemangiomas .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Temperature 99.2 .
Pulse 60 .
Blood pressure 120/80 .
Respiratory rate 14 .
In general , she was a thin well-appearing woman in no acute distress .
Sclera were anicteric .
Neck was supple .
Chest was clear .
Cardiovascular exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs , rubs or gallops .
Abdomen soft , nontender and distended .
Extremities showed no edema .
Neurologically , she was awoken from sleep by voice , cooperative , but mildly drowsy .
She became more alert during the remainder of the exam .
Speech was fluent but slow , and there was long response latencies before she would initiate speech .
She otherwise had normal spontaneous movements and facial expression and did not appear to be abulic .
She had normal comprehension .
She was able to give a detailed history in an organized manner .
There was no dysarthria .
Language was normal .
There was no evidence of any special neglect .
Pupils equal , round and reactive to light .
Visual fields were full .
Extraocular movements were full with normal smooth pursuit to the left .
Pursuit was interrupted by >.....< when tracking from left to right .
She had sustained gaze holding nystagmus in both horizontal directions .
There was no rotary component .
She had a mildly widened right palpable fissure .
There was decreased excursion of the right mouth and flattening of the right nasolabial fold ( mild ) .
Light touch was subjectively abnormal on both sides of the face .
Hearing was diminished for conversational speech .
Palate and tongue moved normally in the midline .
There was a mild left pronator drift .
Finger tapping and rapid alternating movements were slow on the left and she had trouble isolating individual finger movements .
There was mild finger-to-nose dysmetria on the left .
Power was mildly diminished in the finger extensors and hand intrinsics on the left , otherwise , power was full throughout .
Reflexes were brisk in the legs with 4-5 beats of clonus at the ankles bilaterally .
She had bilateral upgoing toes .
She made mistakes with position sense , roughly at chance level with both great toes and the left first finger , position sense in the right limb seems preserved .
Gait was wide based , very unsteady , veering to the left and to the right .
She retropulsed and would have pitched backwards without the assistance of the examiner .
LABORATORIES :
White blood cell count 7.8 with 86% polymorphonuclear cells , 11.1 lymphocytes , hemoglobin 14.3 , hematocrit 40.5 , MCV 88 , INR 1.0 , PTT 24.7 , PT 12.3 , platelet count 295,000 , glucose 81 , BUN 15 , creatinine 0.8 , sodium 142 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 104 , CO2 26 , calcium 9.3 , phosphate 4.8 , magnesium 2.3 .
MRI of the brain revealed multiple foci susceptibility artifact within the brain .
These were seen best in gradient echocardiogram images .
There was a large focus of subacute blood products in the mid to low pons suggesting recent hemorrhage into a cavernous angioma .
There was some mild surrounding edema .
There are also tiny foci artifact within the cerebellum and base of the pons .
There was a larger area of susceptibility artifact in the left temporal lobe , right frontal lobe , and the splenius of the corpus collasum .
The brain parenchyma was otherwise normal .
There was mild enhancement of the pontine hemorrhagic mass but none elsewhere .
There was no areas of restricted diffusion to indicate infarction .
MRA of the brain was unremarkable .
There was no communication >.......< in the visualized vessels and the angiomas .
Follow-up CT was obtained the second day of admission .
There was no evidence of developing hydrocephalus , which was a concern due to the surrounding edema , and possible suppression of the fourth ventricle .
There was no significant change in size of the subacute pontine hemorrhage .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Mrs. Wisniewski is a 45 - year-old woman with a strong family history of cavernous angiomas .
She has had several prior bleeding events and presented with a subacute bleed in the mid to lower pons .
There was relatively central in location , with only a slight right-sided predominance .
Her physical examination remained relatively unchanged , with resolution of the subtle left hand weakness and right facial weakness .
Her gait remained severely ataxic , likely secondary to sensory deafferentation , as well as involvement of crossing pontine cerebellar fibers .
Therefore , it was recommended that she have aggressive Physical Therapy at an Acute Rehabilitation Center .
The case was discussed with Dr. Harold from the Falmouth Hospital .
He has followed this family in the past and will see her in follow-up .
We will arrange to have a copy of the MRI scans sent to him .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES :
1. Familial cavernous hemangiomas , status post a subacute pontine hemorrhage .
2. Severe gait ataxia .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
1. Gabapentin 100 mg po t.i.d. for paresthesias .
2. Colace 100 mg po b.i.d.
3. Zantac 150 mg po b.i.d.
4. Prednisone taper completed .
Andre R. RATAN , M.D.
23-397
Dictated By : Maria A Singler , M.D.
MEDQUIST36
D : 2009-12-31 14:05
T : 2009-12-31 14:57
JOB #: 71678
Signed electronically by : DR. Juan R. RATAN on : TUE 2010-03-02 8:13 PM
( End of Report )