Admission Date :
2009-03-27
Discharge Date :
2009-04-03
Date of Birth :
1960-03-06
Sex :
F
Service :
GYNECOLOGY
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 49-year-old gravida III , para II , who was sent from her primary care physician 's office secondary to lower abdominal pain .
The patient is status post uterine artery embolization on 2009-01-07 secondary to fibroids .
She has had continuing vaginal discharge , and was diagnosed with bacterial vaginosis one day prior to admission , and was given a prescription for Flagyl .
She noted increasing abdominal pain two days prior to admission , which became more severe on the day prior to admission .
She went to her primary care physician 's office on the day of admission complaining of abdominal pain , which she stated was constant but intermittently sharper at times .
The location was variable .
She also complained of some loose stools on the day of admission , no nausea or vomiting .
Her temperature was 100.4 in the office , and she had no chills .
She was sent for a CT scan of her abdomen , which revealed fluid and question of gas in the endometrial cavity , and she was sent to Pinewood , Norfolk for treatment and admission .
PAST OBSTETRICAL HISTORY :
Cesarean section x 2 , spontaneous abortion x 1 .
PAST GYNECOLOGIC HISTORY :
Last menstrual period 2009-02-21 .
Some spotting on the day prior to admission , but not a normal period .
Periods regular .
Lupron x three months prior to embolization .
Fibroid uterus status post embolization on 2009-01-07 .
Dilatation and curettage x 1 for SAB .
History of herpes simplex virus , last outbreak in 2000 .
No history of abnormal Pap smears .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
None .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Cesarean section x 2 , dilatation and curettage x 1 , neck fusion after motor vehicle accident , shoulder surgery after motor vehicle accident .
MEDICATIONS :
Flagyl .
ALLERGIES :
None .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
No smoking , alcohol or drugs .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Temperature 100.4 , pulse 108 , respirations 20 , blood pressure 110/70 , oxygen saturation 100% on room air .
In general , she was in no acute distress .
Her abdomen was notable for voluntary guarding but no involuntary guarding or rebound , mild right lower quadrant tenderness greater than left lower quadrant , nondistended .
Her pelvic examination was notable for some brownish discharge .
Her uterus and adnexa were difficult to assess secondary to voluntary tensing of her abdomen .
ASSESSMENT :
This is a 49-year-old gravida III , para II , status post uterine artery embolization on 2009-01-07 due to uterine fibroids , with continued abdominal pain and CT scan revealing fluid and gas in the endometrial cavity .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted and was initially started on intravenous ampicillin , gentamicin and clindamycin .
Her initial white blood cell count was 11.3 , with a normal differential .
Her sedimentation rate was elevated at 110 .
Her electrolytes were within normal limits .
She was maintained on intravenous antibiotics .
On hospital day number three , her blood cultures came back positive in the anaerobic culture for gram-positive cocci in pairs and clusters .
Further identification revealed staphylococcus coag-negative , which was sensitive to gentamicin and clindamycin .
She was continued on her antibiotics , and was afebrile until hospital day number five , when she had a temperature spike to 102.3 .
Repeat blood cultures were sent .
Her white blood cell count was 12.8 , with a normal differential .
At this time , an Infectious Disease consult was obtained , and the recommendation was to discontinue the ampicillin , gentamicin and clindamycin , and start her on intravenous Unasyn .
She underwent a pelvic ultrasound and an abdomen and pelvis CT , which revealed continued air in the endometrial cavity vs. in the fundal fibroid .
Discussion was had at this time with the patient regarding whether or not this represented an infected abscess vs. post-surgical change .
Extensive discussion was held , and second opinion was obtained regarding the need for
possible drainage of the abscess vs. hysterectomy .
The patient requested an outside second opinion , as she was reluctant to undergo hysterectomy at this time .
She was discharged to home on hospital day number eight , on oral antibiotics .
The patient was to have a repeat CT scan in one week .
She was also to obtain a second opinion regarding the question of possible surgical management .
Claude U Bolanos , M.D.
95-182
Dictated By : William MP Lajoie , M.D.
MEDQUIST36
D : 2009-04-02 22:09
T : 2009-04-03 01:26
JOB #:
61261
Signed electronically by : DR. Suzanne Simpson on : FRI 2009-04-24 12:48 PM
( End of Report )