01909607
Admission Date :
2010-06-28
Discharge Date :
2010-07-01
Date of Birth :
1990-02-01
Sex :
F
Service :
ORTHOPEDIC
HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 20-year-old female with no significant past medical history , who was the unrestrained passenger in a high speed rollover motor vehicle accident on 2010-06-27 .
By report , the patient was ejected from the vehicle on impact and found curled in the fetal position at the rear of the vehicle at the scene .
The vehicle was noted to be extensively damaged .
By report , the patient was noted to be awake , but confused at the scene of the accident with no memory of the incident .
She was immobilized in the C-spine collar at the scene of the accident and subsequently transported by EMS to the New England Sinai Hospital & Rehab Center Emergency Department for further management .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Examination on presentation to the emergency room revealed the following :
Temperature 35.4 Celsius , blood pressure 116/63 , pulse 105 , respiratory rate 18 , oxygen saturation 98% on room air .
The patient was alert and oriented times three in no apparent distress .
Boston Coma Scale of 15 .
Tympanic membranes were noted to be clear .
Pupils were equal , round , reactive to light at approximately 4 mm .
The patient 's trachea was noted to be midline .
The patient 's lung examination revealed the lungs to be clear to auscultation bilaterally , no crepitus , and a left clavicular deformity was grossly apparent on examination .
CARDIAC :
Cardiac examination demonstrated regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops .
ABDOMEN :
Soft , nontender , nondistended .
RECTAL :
Examination was guaiac negative with good rectal tone .
The patient 's pelvis was stable to AP and lateral compression .
A 5 cm laceration was noted over the patient 's occiput on further inspection with no exposed underlying bone .
Right upper extremity examination demonstrated intact motor , sensory , and vascular function .
Left upper extremity examination demonstrated no gross deformities , tenderness to palpation in the mid forearm , intact motor function in the median , radial , and ulnar nerve distributions , intact sensation to light touch in the median and radial nerve distributions , decreased sensation in the ulnar-nerve distribution , warm and well perfused limb with 2+ radial pulses .
Right lower extremity examination demonstrated mild swelling and ecchymosis of the right posterior thigh and approximately a 3 cm laceration in the lower leg , expressive of moderate amounts of standard sterile
fashion .
No gross deformities .
Motor , sensory , and vascular examinations were intact in all distributions .
Left lower extremity examination demonstrated no gross deformities and intact motor , sensory , and vascular examinations in all distributions .
Radiographic studies demonstrated an inferior displaced left midclavicular fracture , no evidence of
pneumothorax .
Trauma series demonstrated no evidence of a pelvic fracture .
Head CT demonstrated no evidence of intracranial bleeding .
Trauma CT demonstrated mild pulmonary contusions , but no pelvic fracture .
Cervical spine imaging demonstrated no evidence of cervical spine injury .
Right tibial-fibular film series demonstrated no evidence of fracture displacement .
Left humerus film series demonstrated no evidence of fracture or displacement .
Right foot and femur series demonstrated no evidence of fracture displacement .
Left forearm and wrist series demonstrated transverse mid shaft radial fracture with ulnar displacement .
Diagnosis peritoneum lavage times two was negative for any signs of intra-abdominal bleeding .
LABORATORY DATA :
Studies on admission revealed the following :
White blood cell 12.9 , hemoglobin 11.5 , hematocrit 32.8 , platelet count 197,000 , sodium 141 , potassium 3.6 , chloride 110 , bicarbonate 21 , BUN 20 , creatinine 0.7 , glucose 189 , PT 13.3 , INR 1.2 , PTT 30.0 , amylase 57 , arterial blood gas 7.32 , 35 , 159 , 19 , -7 .
Urinalysis was within normal limits with 6 to 10 red blood cells .
Toxicology screen was negative .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was evaluated by the Trauma Service in the emergency room , where she received four liters
crystalloid and four units packed red blood cells with good response .
In addition , the patient received the above-described diagnostic procedures , which demonstrated injuries limited to a posterior scalp laceration , left fractured clavicle , left fractured radius , right thigh hematoma , and right leg laceration .
The patient was subsequently admitted to the Trauma Service on 2010-06-28 under the direction of Dr. Lowery .
Given the patient 's right thigh hematoma , a duplex evaluation of the right lower extremity was performed on 2010-06-28 and demonstrated no evidence of major arterial or venous injury in the level of
the right inguinal region .
On 06-28 , the patient was also cleared for removal of her C-spine collar and deemed stable for transfer to the Orthopedic Service under the direction of Dr. Ronda Lopez .
The patient remained stable through 2010-06-29 at which point she was sent to the operating room to undergo a left radial fracture open reduction and internal fixation procedure .
The patient tolerated the procedure well and demonstrated a postoperative hematocrit of 40.9 .
Of note , the scalp and right lower leg lacerations were closed primarily by the trauma team on admission and on hospital day #1 were noted to be clean , dry , and intact .
Nonoperative treatment was elected for the patient 's left clavicular fracture .
On postoperative day #1 , 2010-06-30 , the patient was noted to be clinically stable , tolerating oral intake , and expressive of adequate amounts of urine independent of a Foley catheter .
The patient 's head wound laceration was noted to be clean and dry with intact staples .
There was no erythema or purulence .
The left clavicle was noted to have continued ecchymosis decreased from prior examination with a minor stepoff and mild tenderness to palpation decreased from prior examinations .
The left forearm dressing was noted to be in place , clean , dry , and intact with no saturation .
The patient was noted to be able to wiggle her fingers with intact flexor , extensor , abductor , and adductor function .
Mild swelling was noted in the left hand .
Sensation was intact in the median , radius , and ulnar-nerve distributions .
Fingers were warm and well perfused with capillary refill less than 3 seconds .
The patient 's right anterior tibial wound was noted to be clean , dry , and intact with sutures intact and no erythema or purulence noted .
On 06-30 , the patient was evaluated by Occupational Therapy and fitted for a left upper extremity splint .
The patient was also administered adaptive training for activities of daily life and advised regarding wound care .
In addition , the patient was also fitted with a figure-of-eight clavicular splint and instructed in its
proper use .
On 2010-07-01 , the patient was discharged from the hospital with instructions for follow up care on return to the United Kingdom .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
The patient is to be discharged to home .
DISCHARGE STATUS :
Stable .
DIAGNOSIS :
1. Left transverse mid shaft radial fracture with ulnar displacement status post left radial open reduction and internal fixation .
2. Left midclavicular fracture managed nonoperatively .
3. Occipital scalp laceration .
4. Right anterior tibial laceration .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
Percocet one to two tablets PO q.4h. to 6h.p.r.n. pain .
FOLLOW-UP CARE :
The patient is medically cleared for a flight to return to her home in the United Kingdom .
The patient is to maintain her figure-of-eight clavicular splint and left posterior forearm splint in place for fourteen days following discharge .
The left forearm and right lower leg wound should be kept clean and dry with regular dressing changes with dry gauze once per day .
Scalp laceration should be kept clean and dry for five days following discharge after which point the patient may once wash her hair .
Percocet for pain as needed .
The patient is to followup with an orthopedist in the United Kingdom fourteen days following discharge at which point repeat x-rays of her left forearm should be obtained and her left forearm scalp and right lower leg sutures and staples may be removed .
Questions regarding follow up may be referred to Dr. Ronda Lopez at the Ayer Orthopedic Group .
Telephone #:
( 658 ) 842-8661 .
Ortiz V Baugher , M.D.
75-285
Dictated By : Catherine K Thomas , M.D.
MEDQUIST36
D : 2010-06-30 17:18
T : 2010-06-30 17:39
JOB #:
03326
Signed electronically by : DR. Kisha Jones on : Jose 2010-07-01 8:27 AM
( End of Report )