Admission Date :
2019-01-09
Discharge Date :
2019-01-15
Date of Birth :
1973-11-18
Sex :
M
Service :
MEDICINE
Allergies :
Erythromycin Base
Attending : Stephanie I Sept , M.D.
Chief Complaint :
Syncope .
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure :
None .
History of Present Illness :
45M w/no PMH presented to Chelseahospital after a syncopal episode on the morning of admission .
Pt was preparing lunch when suddenly felt lightheaded / faint and immediately fell to the kitchen floor face first .
He denies LOC .
Immediately there after he was very short of breath , felt lightheaded again and called 911 .
At Springfield , CT chest was positive for saddle PE .
VS were with stable BPs , tachy to 110-120 , sat 98% RA .
He received Lovenox 91 mg SC prior to transport and was transferred to Arbour Hospital for further care .
Mr. Anders states that 2 weeks prior to his presentation he hurt his left knee .
He was sitting on the floor legs crossed and stood up when he heard his knee CMED CCU .
Then again on Sunday , 3 days PTA , again from sitting to standing heard his knee CMED CCU .
He was essentially bed bound for 3 days prior to admission , unable to ambulate .
He started to notice inflammation of his L calf / leg worse 2 days prior to presentation .
In this 2 week interval he denied having CP / chest discomfort or difficulty breathing , no cough or hemoptysis .
No f/c/ sweats .
Pt denied any bleeding or clotting disorders and has never had a clot in the past .
Past Medical History :
Left knee injury .
Seasonal allergies .
Social History :
- Lives w/ wife & son in Jose , MA
- Denies TOB use , occasional ETOH use
Family History :
- M :
HTN , DM
- F :
COPD , Prostate CA
- Grandfather died of MI at age 75
Physical Exam :
VS : 99.4 HR 111 BP 110/64 RR16 97% 2LNC
GEN : NAD , pleasant speaking in full sentences
HEENT : MMM , OP clear , dried blood in nasal mucosa
RESP : CTABL , no crackles , no wheezing or rhonchi
CV : Reg , tachy Nml S1 , S2 , no M/R/G
ABD : soft ND/NT +BS
EXT : L leg/calf swollen , + Johnson sign , not tense , no cord palpable , L knee w/ medial meniscus area inflammed , not warm , no crepitus , feet-2+DP pulses b/l
Pertinent Results :
1. CT OF HEAD WITHOUT CONTRAST :
No evidence of acute intracranial hemorrhage or fractures .
2. ECHO
Conclusions :
The left atrium is normal in size .
The estimated right atrial pressure is 16-20 mmHg .
Left ventricular wall thicknesses are normal .
The left ventricular cavity is small .
Left ventricular systolic function is hyperdynamic ( EF > 75% ) .
There is no ventricular septal defect .
The right ventricular cavity is mildly dilated .
Right ventricular systolic function is borderline normal .
The aortic valve leaflets ( 3 ) appear structurally normal with good leaflet excursion and no aortic regurgitation .
The mitral valve leaflets are structurally normal .
There is no mitral valve prolapse .
There is moderate pulmonary artery systolic hypertension .
There is no pericardial effusion .
Impression : mildly dilated right ventricle ; small , hyperdynamic left ventricle ; at least moderate pulmonary hypertension
3. BILATERAL LENI 's
IMPRESSION :
No evidence of DVT in either lower limb .
OSH IMAGING :
- saddle PE , no CD or report sent
EKG :
- Sinus Tach , normal axis HR 119 ST Depression V3-V5 ; S1Q3T3 , p-pulmonale .
01-11 MRI Left Knee w/o Contrast
1. Bucket handle medial meniscal tear with flipped fragment in the intercondylar notch .
Complex tear involving the posterior Ellison and body .
2. Moderate knee joint effusion with possible ganglion cyst at the insertion of the PCL .
3. Discoid lateral meniscus .
Brief Hospital Course :
Mr. Anders was admitted for anticoagulation and hemodynamic monitoring in the setting of saddle pulmonary embolus and left knee injury .
#. PE :
Given no other risk factors or likely causes , the most likely etiology for his embolus is DVT from the left leg .
He has no known clotting disorder but did have trauma to leg prompting immobility and stasis .
He remained hemodynmically stable throughout his hospitalization and did not have an oxygen requirement upon discharge .
Given no evidence of hemodynamic instability , lysis was not required .
He was anticoagulated with heparin and coumadin .
He will need to follow up with hematology for an outpatient thrombophilia work-up ( not done as inpatient as results would not change acute management of PE ).
He will also require close follow up with his primary care provider for coumadin management .
Duration of his coumadin therapy to be determined by hematology , but likely to be at least 6 months in duration .
#. Syncope :
In setting of PE .
Remainder of his cardiac workup was negative .
He did have a small troponin leak , felt to be related to right heart strain in the setting of P-pulmonale related to clot burden .
His tronponin quickly trended down and he did not have EKG evidence of ischemia .
An ECHO did not reveal any wall motion abnormalities related to ischemia .
#. Hematocrit :
Dropped from 42.7 to 36 in setting of anticoagulation for saddle PE and IV fluids .
No active bleeding noted .
Pt asymptomatic .
#. L knee injury :
Given his history and physical exam , Mr. Anders presented with an injury most consistent with meniscal tear .
In order to facilitate therapy and to promote mobility , an MRI of the knee was done .
He was seen by physical therapy and will need to follow up with orthopaedics upon discharge for repeat evaluation .
#. CODE :
FULL CODE .
Medications on Admission :
- Claritin prn
- Flonase prn
Discharge Disposition :
Home
Discharge Diagnosis :
Pulmonary embolus
Left knee meniscal tear
Discharge Condition :
Stable
Discharge Instructions :
You were admitted to the hospital for a pulmonary embolism .
You were treated with blood thinners .
You have been started on an oral blood thinner called Coumadin ( Warfarin ).
Please continue to take this medication as prescribed .
You must have your INR ( blood levels ) checked on a regular basis until your INR levels remain 01-19 .
The MRI of your knee showed a meniscal tear .
Please schedule an appointment with your orthopedic surgeon to determine a plan for treatment .
Please follow-up with your Primary Care doctor Marion Bock as below .
Please return to the hospital if you experience chest pain , shortness of breath , lightheadedness or dizziness .
Followup Instructions :
Please follow-up with your Primary care doctor Larry Bock 2019-01-16 at 8:30 AM .
At this appointment , you should confirm orthopedic follow-up and request a hematology referral .
Call to reschedule .
Heidi Laura MD 44-725
Completed by : Daniel Tapaha MD 73-060 2019-01-15 @ 0918
Signed electronically by : DR. Steven W. Weekley on : Sandra 2019-01-15 10:22 AM
( End of Report )