Admission Date :
2013-05-14
Discharge Date :
2013-05-18
Date of Birth :
1953-07-27
Sex :
F
Service :
CMED CSRU
CHIEF COMPLAINT :
The patient was admitted originally for airway monitoring status post endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography with adverse reaction to Fentanyl and tongue injury .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 59 year-old female status post endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography on the day of admission , which had been done to evaluate for possible bile leak after cholecystectomy was performed four days ago .
The patient was in her usual state of health until four days prior to admission when she had a cholecystectomy .
Her postop course was uneventful until one day prior to admission when she developed abdominal pain .
She went to an outside hospital Emergency Room and was reassured and sent home .
On the day of admission she returned to the outside hospital Emergency Room where an abdominal CT was performed , which showed " thickened stomach and free air ."
She was sent to New England Sinai Hospital & Rehab Center for an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and possible stent placement .
She had a successful endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography , which showed a bile leak at the duct of Luschka .
A stent was placed successfully .
After her endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography the patient developed " jaw clenching , biting tongue , rigidity and cold / chills ."
The patient received ampicillin , Gentamycin and Flagyl empirically as well as Narcan to reverse fentanyl .
Because of the tongue injury and tachycardia as well as possible infection given her fevers or chills the GI Service transferred the patient to the CMED CCU for close observation .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. Hiatal hernia .
2. Status post cholecystectomy four days prior to admission .
3. Urinary frequency secondary to interstitial cystitis .
4. Mitral valve prolapse .
5. Tubal ligation many years ago .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
1. Prempro .
2. CMED CCU drops .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies at the time of admission , however , it is assumed that her rigidity and jaw clenching was secondary to Fentanyl .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient is married .
She works as a teacher 's aid in Cambridge .
She denies tobacco or alcohol use .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION TO THE CMED CCU :
Vital signs temperature 100.6 .
Heart rate 105 .
Blood pressure 162/76 .
Respiratory rate 18 .
Sating 98% on 3 liters .
In general , the patient was groggy status post anesthesia , shivering , but awake .
HEENT showed tongue with laceration on the right edge .
Mucous membranes are moist .
Pupils are equal , round and reactive to light .
Extraocular movements intact .
Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally .
Heart regular rate and rhythm .
No murmurs , rubs or gallops .
Abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended .
There were normoactive bowel sounds .
There was no rebound or guarding .
There were post laparoscopic incisions without erythema with Steri-Strips in place .
The extremities were without edema .
Dorsalis pedis pulses were intact bilaterally .
There were no rashes .
LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION :
White blood cell count 9.0 , hematocrit 39.3 , platelets 296 , neutrophil count 82 , lymphocytes 14 , 4 monocytes , troponin was less then 0.3 .
Sodium 139 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 101 , bicarb 26 , BUN 9 , creatinine 0.7 , glucose 141 , albumin 4.1 , calcium 8.9 , LDH 665 , AST 44 , ALT of 57 , amylase 41 , CK 32 .
Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at 73 beats per minute .
There was normal axis .
Normal intervals .
There were no ST or T wave changes .
Abdominal CT showed inflammation in the right upper quadrant , small fluid in the circumferential thickening of the distal stomach .
There was a question of a small ulcer .
There was a tiny amount of free air .
This was per report of Vencor Hospital .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
In summary the patient is a 59 year-old female who was admitted to Quincy Medical Center for an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography for possible stent placement for a bile leak secondary to cholecystectomy performed four days prior to admission .
She then suffered rigidity with jaw clenching and tongue biting secondary to Fentanyl administration and was transferred to the CMED CCU for close observation .
She did well overnight in the CMED CCU .
She was started on Ampicillin , Gentamycin and Flagyl .
Her liver function tests and amylase and lipase were followed closely .
On the second hospital day the patient was doing much better and was stable from an airway perspective , so she was transferred to the General Medical Floor .
1. Gastrointestinal :
As stated the patient was status post endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with stent
placement for a bile leak from the duct of Luschka .
The patient was continued on Ampicillin , Gentamycin and Flagyl , which had been started at the time of transfer to the CMED CCU .
She had waxing and waning fevers .
However , her white blood cell count was never really elevated and she did not have a bandemia .
On the day of transfer to the General Medical Floor the patient had received clear liquids .
She did not tolerate this very well .
Her amylase and lipase on the day following the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography
were elevated .
Amylase was 2304 with lipase being 7116 .
Therefore she was made NPO and given aggressive intravenous hydration .
On the second hospital day on the General Medical Floor the patient had marked rebound to palpation of her abdomen .
She was followed closely with serial abdominal examinations .
Her amylase and lipase were trending down , however .
An abdominal CT was obtained , which showed only mild pancreatitis .
There were no intra-abdominal fluid collections , which required any drainage .
On the third hospital day the patient 's pain was improving and the rebound was decreasing .
Her enzymes continued to trend down .
She received clear liquids in the evening and tolerated these well .
On the day of discharge the patient was tolerating a BRAT diet without significant abdominal
pain .
She had no further rebound .
She had no temperature spikes in greater then 24 hours at the time of discharge .
2. Hematology :
The patient 's hematocrit was 34.8 at the time of admission .
It decreased to 30 in the setting of aggressive hydration .
It remained stable at the time of discharge and it was 29.5 on the day of discharge .
3. FEN :
The patient was aggressively hydrated given that she was NPO .
She required periodic repletion of her potassium .
Her bicarb began to drop and she developed an anion gap acidosis .
This was most likely secondary to ketoacidosis as she had no dextrose in her intravenous fluids .
This was added on the evening prior to discharge and on the day of discharge her anion gap acidosis had resolved .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Stable .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1. Levaquin 500 mg one po q day times seven days .
2. Protonix 40 mg po q day .
3. Percocet one to two tablets po q 4 to 6 hours prn .
The patient was given a prescription for ten pills .
4. Prempro as the patient was formerly taking .
5. Trazodone at bedtime .
DISCHARGE FOLLOW UP :
The patient was to make an appointment with Dr. Nicholson within one to two months after discharge for removal of the stent .
In addition , she would follow up with her primary care physician within one to two weeks following discharge .
She was to continue on a BRAT diet over the weekend and two days after discharge she could advance to a low fat no dairy diet .
She could slowly advance back to a normal diet over the next week .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES :
1. Post endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography pancreatitis .
2. Anemia .
3. Hypokalemia .
4. Anion gap acidosis .
5. Bile leak .
Thompson MING LI , M.D.
44-725
Dictated By : Marcelene R. Brennan , M.D.
MEDQUIST36
D : 2013-05-18 13:49
T : 2013-05-20 08:16
JOB #:
23220
Signed electronically by : DR. Ruth O. Black on : WED 2013-05-22 7:10 AM
( End of Report )